helloo great lights thank you thank you
all for coming my name is Adam baglin
and I'm a solutions architect on the
high performance computing team here at
AWS i'm really excited to talk to you
guys today about a subject that I'm
really passionate about which is ec2
performance see I've been a system
administrator most of my career and I
know how frustrating it is to not get
the performance that you're expecting
out of an ec2 instance or out of a
server so what I wanted to talk to you
today it's about some of the things that
I've learned and that my customers do in
order to get the best possible
performance out of ec2 my customers are
doing things like computational fluid
dynamics and gene sequencing and semi
conductor design so as you can imagine
performance is a really important
subject to them so I'm glad that I can
share this information with you guys
today now this presentation it's
definitely built to be a deep dive on
ec2 performance and we're going to die
pretty deep into the nitty-gritty of how
easy to works but along the way I also
want to make sure that I'm highlighting
actionable things that you guys can walk
away with and actually apply to your
instances in order to get them to run at
their full potential I'm also going to
talk a little bit about things that go
into choosing your ec2 instance because
when it comes to getting performance out
of an instance making sure that you're
picking the right one is just as
important as all the performance tips
that i'm going to give you during this
presentation
this side the thing works a little bit
easier now ec2 it's a really big subject
and when you talk about ec2 you can talk
about a lot of different things you can
talk about the different ways of
purchasing easy to all the AP is and
SDKs that make managing it easier even
talk about the networking that backs
every see to instance but what I'm going
to cover today are the ec2 instances
themselves how they operate what their
features are and all the options that
you have when you go to launch them for
all those other subjects I'm going to be
giving some recommendations for other
presentations here at reinvent that'll
dive deep into those and I'll give those
at the end of this presentation so let's
start at the basics what is an ec2
instance well easy two instances there
virtual machines so they are guests that
are sitting on top of a hypervisor
that's running on a piece of physical
hardware and when we launch DC to about
10 years ago in 2006 you didn't get a
lot of choices you didn't get a lot of
flexibility you went to launch and
you've got a instance you didn't get to
pick how many virtual CPUs it had or how
much memory it had it was kind of like
the original model T where you could
have any color you want as long as it's
black or in our case we made it orange
and we eventually gave it a name we
started calling it the m1 instance but
customers they wanted more flexibility
and they wanted more choices so we
started iterating on the platform and as
you can see we've been growing really
significantly ever since but not only
have we been adding more ec2 instances
we've actually been quietly changing how
easy to operates underneath the hood a
good example of this is in 2011 when we
launched the CC to instance this was the
first instance where we actually gave
you the ability to define the physical
topology of your ec2 instances and that
was with placement groups so with
placement groups you can actually define
that your instances be located
physically close together to get you the
best possible bandwidth and the lowest
possible latency this was also the time
where we introduced hardware-assisted
virtualization and h vm is a great
feature because it allows you to use
more of the underlying hardware and not
spend so much time talking to the
hypervisor now ec2 it's always growing
and it's always changing even the things
that I talked about today may be
different in the future so whenever
you're designing your infrastructure
make sure that you're looking at our
documentation to find the latest
information available on ec2 now before
we dive into the instances and dive into
the the tuning aspects I want to be sure
that we're starting with a common
language so here you can see the name of
an instance it's the sea for extra large
and the C&C force is the instance family
now the family stands for what the
instance is best suited for or what
resources it has so you've got c4
compute our for am I for I ups so and so
forth the next number you see is the
instance generation and you can think of
this almost like a version number of
your ec2 instance so see for instance is
newer than ac3 instance and lastly you
have the instant sighs and I've heard
these called t-shirt sizes which is a
really great way of thinking about them
so you've got small medium large extra
large so and so forth and what all this
means for you is that you have a lot of
choices you have a lot of flexibility
when you go to launch your instance now
I know when you're in the ec2 console it
can seem pretty overwhelming when you're
faced with that giant list of instances
you're trying to launch for your
workload so my suggestion to be able to
pick the right instance is to first
start with the instance family and to
find the right family you need to look
and understand what your application is
constrained by so if your application
needs a lot of memory start with a ram
optimized instance like the r3 instance
if you need a lot of compute start with
the c-4 if your application is actually
pretty well balanced you probably want
to be in the general-purpose category
with an m4 or a t2 instance by choosing
your instance from the perspective of
your constraint it's pretty easy to find
the right family and then from there
it's just a little bit of testing to
find the right size within that family
if you still need a little bit of help
the ec2 document
actually has a list of workloads for
every single family that are well suited
for it so it's a great option to go if
you're not sure but when you're going to
launch an instance you'll see something
a property of that instance that you've
probably not seen outside of AWS and
that's the vcpu or virtual CPU and I
have a lot of customers asking you what
is a virtual CPU well a vcpu or a
virtual CPU on modern instances except
for the T family which is special for
reasons we'll talk about later it's
actually just a hyper threaded physical
core now hyper threading is a really
cool technology that lets you get more
out of your CPU so it lets your CPU do
almost two things at once so normally if
you have a process that would be blocked
on Io or waiting on a user it would be
stuck in your CPU wouldn't be able to do
anything with hyper-threading that see
if you can wait and process some
requests as they're coming in now we
have some customers who want to know
their real core count or their physical
core count on their instances and to do
this you can usually just divide that
vcpu number by 2 to get that core count
we also list for licensing purpose is a
list of every ec2 instance and how many
physical cores it has on the link that
you see below and to visualize what a
virtual CPU looks like here's the output
of a program that I like to use it's
called LS topo that's LS t.o.p oh and I
really like it because it gives you a
visual representation of the underlying
physical hardware of your instance so
here you can see the output of an m4 10
x large instance you can see how many
sockets it has how much memory is
assigned to each socket the level 1
through level 3 cash that it has most
importantly for these purposes you can
actually see the physical core count and
then the threads that are assigned to
each core so in the case of the m4 10 x
large you can see that you have 40
threads and 20 physical course now there
are some applications that actually
don't benefit from hyper threading where
the context switching involved in then
you can actually slow down the
performance these are typically compute
heavy applications things like financial
risk calculations and engineering
simulations that's been a lot of time
working on that processor these
applications both on-premise and on AWS
usually disabled hyper-threading now if
you're not sure if this applies for your
workloads look at what you do with your
on-premise or your bare metal machines
or what your co-workers do if you
normally disable it on promise you'll
probably also want to disable it on AWS
if you're not sure you probably don't
need to worry about any of this but it's
really easy to do on Linux slightly
harder on windows on Linux the way
threads are numerated makes it really
easy to turn off that hyper threading so
you have let's say you have two
processors the a threads of each
processor are listed first so say 0
through 10 on a m4 and then you got 10
through 20 on the other cpu socket the B
threads are then listed second so to
disable hyper-threading all you need to
do is turn off those be threads and you
can do this two different ways the first
way that you'll see here is you can do
it online so this is just a simple floor
for loop and bash and what it's doing is
it's disabling every online processor
now this is a great option because it
doesn't require a reboot however the
downsides of this is that it could
potentially cause system instability
because your data say blowing processors
that applications might be running on
you'll also lose all these changes once
you reboot the machine so the way that I
prefer is the second way which is just
in Linux to set a grub boot parameter
for the number of physical cores of that
box minus one because it starts at zero
the only downside of this approach is
that it does require a reboot and that
if you ever change from one instant size
to another you're going to have to
remember to update that setting on
Windows this process is a little bit
harder and that's because instead of
listing the a first and then the be like
Linux does windows actually interleaves
the a and the B processors so it
order to disable hyper-threading on a
windows box you've actually got to use
something like CPU thread affinity to
lock specific processors to their
specific physical course and here you
can see that same output of that same m4
10 x large but just with hyper-threading
enabled you'll notice now that there's
one thread for every physical core
whereas there were two earlier so next
let's dig a little bit deeper into how
instant sizes work the way we build
instances actually is built to allow you
to scale pretty easily both vertically
and horizontally so let's take the c4
family as an example here you can see on
the left is the C 48 x large instance
which is the largest sea for a taxi for
instance that we have available that c
48 x large instance is roughly equal and
resources to two of the c-4 4x large
resource c 4 for x large instances sorry
and this is these are things like
virtual cpus that that instance has the
amount of memory that's allocated to it
given the amount of network bandwidth
that's available to that instance is
roughly half of that size and this
follows all the way down the line so
four of the sea for 2x larges are
roughly equal to two of the sea for 4x
largest and so on and so forth and the
reason that things are set up this way
is because of how we partition are
instances typically when you're running
the largest instance you're getting the
whole physical server when you're
running smaller instances you're
actually getting a fraction of that
server now virtualization has
historically gotten a pretty bad
reputation because it's often used to
manage the over utilization of resources
so you have more VMs than you have
physical hardware to satisfy them we on
the other hand use virtualization for a
lot of other reasons one of the most
important ones is for security and
isolation from one virtual machine to
another on the same piece of physical
hardware
but we also use virtualization so that
we can dedicate specific resources to
specific customers so taking virtual
CPUs as an example again with the
exception of the T family which is
special for reasons we'll talk about
later when you're assigned a virtual CPU
you are the only customer that's using
that cpu and you're not sharing it with
anyone else on the box the same thing
applies to memory and network allocation
we build ec2 instances with the goal of
providing you with a consistent
experience every time you use it no
matter what else is happening on that
hardware and the last thing I want to
talk about when it comes to choosing
your instance and I know it's pretty
cheesy to quote your own ec2
documentation but I really like the
sentiment behind this it's really easy
to smit up in an ec2 instance and
install your application and do some
testing in it so instead of doing what I
see customers do which is launched a
synthetic load testing tool to count the
number of flops or I ops or whatever
they can get out of the instance install
your real application and test on that
so if you have a mobile app simulate a
real user navigating through it if you
have an HP see application run some of
your common models if you have a
business intelligence database run some
your common queries use a real work load
so that you know how your application is
actually going to perform as you go into
production and not only that you're
going to be able to understand as you're
testing different instants sizes how
your application is in a scale and
perform as you grow and scale out now I
want to start digging a little bit
deeper into the operating system and how
the operating system interacts with the
ec2 hardware on any instance physical or
virtual timekeeping is a really
important operation it's used for things
like processing interrupts getting the
time and date and measuring performance
of cyclists most a.m. is that you
launched on AWS are going to
is the zen clock source by default and
the reason they do this is because the
zen clock source is compatible with
every single instance that we have
however there's around the time of the
sandy bridge processor that the tsc
clock source became available now the
tsc clock source compared to the zen
clock source is actually handled by bare
metal and not the hypervisor so every
time you make a timekeeping call you're
going to be talking to the physical
processor and not to a virtual device
and because of this calls to the CSC
clock source are going to be
significantly quicker so to demonstrate
this I wrote a very simple application
don't worry about trying to read it my
code is terrible emesis admin but it
does two things it performs a large
number of get time of day calls and it
also performs a little bit of
floating-point math and here's the
results of it with the Zen clock source
i also used estrace to profile this
application as it's running and I really
liked estrace because it'll tell you how
many system calls are being made in the
amount of time that they're taking up so
here you can see it this test took about
12 seconds and get time of day was the
number one call in that list there were
a lot of calls being made and it took up
a significant amount of time the same
exact system the only thing I did is
switch that clock source from zen to tsc
the test now ran in two seconds as
compared to 12 the floor and if you look
at that estrace output get time of day
was so quick it doesn't even show up
anymore now I know this is a pretty
simple application and a pretty extreme
set of results but I've seen some
applications get as much as a 40-percent
performance improvement just by
switching their clock source from zen to
tsc and I could tell that they would
because I profiled them with estrace and
I saw those number of timekeeping calls
so it's an easy change to make on Linux
you can see three commands here the
top command is going to list all the
available clock sources on your system
so you can see if tsc is available and
if you're running a modern instance it
should be the second command is going to
list your current clock source and if
you launched a standard Linux ami that's
probably going to be Zen the last
command is just going to hot online or
hot switch your clock source from zen to
tsc so if you're running a recently
released ec2 instance and you're running
an application that's doing maybe some
JVM debugging or performance tracing or
even SI p your database operations that
have a lot of timekeeping calls I highly
recommend you switch to the TSE clock
source because it could make a big boost
in your performance another recent
change that we made to the platform is
giving you the ability to control the c
& p states of your instances so we
launched this with the sea 48 x large
instance but it's available on many more
today first let's talk about the sea
state so C states allow you to actually
set the power savings features of that
processor so using a sea 48 x large as
an example see 48 x large instance as a
base clock speed of 2.9 gigahertz
however if you're only doing work on one
or two cores those cores can turbo boost
up to about 3.5 gigahertz but it does so
by letting all those other cores on the
system idle down now this is really
great when you are doing an application
that requires a very high clock speed
but if you're doing work that requires
all of your course to be available and
working it can actually increase the
latency of bringing up those idle course
so I have some customers will actually
set this the command that you see down
at the bottom in rub so to limit how far
those instant how far those other cores
can idle down so that when you go to use
them you won't have the increased
latency of spinning them up
next thing I will talk about is the P
States p states allow you to set the
desired frequency of your course so
perhaps you have an application where
you can where you need consistency more
than performance and you want your
course to operate at the same clock
speed all the time game servers are a
pretty good example for these which stay
operated in loops and they expect that
loop to happen take the exact same
amount of time every time it runs so
customers with these needs will actually
set the P state of their course so that
they don't turbo boost and they just
operate at that base clock rate all the
time next I finally want to talk about
those T two instances that I've been
referring to and why they're special so
T two instances they're great general
purpose instances and they're actually
the lowest cost instance it's available
on ec2 today so that T to nano which is
the smallest one you can get for about
half a penny per hour and it's the T two
instances they're great for work loads
that have burstable CPU performance
these are things like database servers
websites even and especially development
environments with a t2 instance you
start with a baseline level of
performance and you're going to get that
all the time on the instance and as you
can see that baseline is different
depending on which instance size that
you go with but the magic of t2 comes in
with the burst credits that allow you to
burst above that baseline so we launched
t two instances because we saw that most
customer workloads aren't using a
hundred percent of the CPU all the time
so using the cpu burst credits it allows
you to get the performance that you need
when you need it and not pay for it when
you don't so let's dig into how those
credits actually work and how you can
use them so you can think of the credits
and a t2 instance kind of like a bucket
so you boot your instance and you're
going to get enough credits that are in
that bucket to handle things like
booting your operating system and
launching your application and doing
whatever work your instance was booted
for
while your instance is running and doing
all that work you're going to slowly
start pulling credits out of that bucket
one cpu credit allows you to burst for a
hundred percent of one core for one
minute now when the work I when the work
dies down and your instance becomes idle
you're going to start earning new
credits going into that bucket also
credits are going to expire out of that
bucket if their unused for 24 hours so
finding the right size of that t2
instance is important to make sure that
you're always boosting and to help you
make sure that we offer two different
CloudWatch metrics that you can monitor
with your instances so the first one in
orange this is your CPU credit usage so
this is going to tell you how many CPU
credits per minute you're using as your
CPU is spiking the second one is the cpu
credit balance and this is going to be
an important metric for you if you
always want to be getting the burst
performance out of your t2 instance so
if you always want to be in that burst
level of performance and not at that
baseline you're going to make sure that
this credit balance never drops down to
zero if you're using something like auto
scaling this is probably the metric that
you want to start hooking on instead of
CPU usage because your CPU usage is
going to drop once you exhaust all the
credits in that bucket the next instance
and I want to talk about is the x1
instance and the x1 is really exciting
because it's the biggest instance that
we have available on AWS the X 1 32 x
large has it's a quad socket system has
almost two terabytes of ram and it has
128 virtual CPUs so it's a massive
machine that's really great if you have
you know a big in-memory database if
you're doing some big data processing or
even some hpc workloads that need that
much memory footprint all on a single
machine but when you have that much
memory effective management of it is
even more important on any system with
multiple sockets accessing the memory
and the socket closest to you is always
going to be faster than accessing memory
in the socket
in a remote socket and this concept is
called Numa or non-uniform memory access
between those two sockets you have
what's called especially on Intel
systems that's called a QP I or
quickpath interconnect and this is the
bus the transfers memory from woonsocket
to another so let's look at the are 38 x
large as an example so this is a two
socket box and you can see that there's
120 2 gigabytes of ram that are attached
to each socket between each socket you
have two qpi links to transfer that
memory from woonsocket to another so if
you have an application that's running
in the socket on the left that's copying
data from the socket from memory in the
socket on the right it's got to send
that memory or send that data over those
qpi paths which well fast are never
going to be as fast as accessing memory
that's local to that socket now when you
go to the x1 instance and you go to four
sockets things get a lot more complex
and numa is even more important compared
to the r 38 x large instance we now have
far more memory / socket 488 gigabytes
of ram on each socket and you'll notice
that instead of two qpi pass because we
have more sockets to spread them across
we now only have one qpi connecting each
socket so memory transfers from one Numa
zone to another are going to take longer
on the x1 than they are on the r3 so
what can you do about this well if
you've ever monitored a system let's say
the top or a process monitor you'll
notice that the process scheduler in
your operating system is actually moving
processes around from one core to
another all the time the scheduling
helps ensure that your CPU performance
is balanced over all the cores in your
system on Linux it wasn't until around
the 38 kernel that it started to take
Numa into a consideration so with that
addition to the kernel or with that
addition to the scheduler it's actually
going to be moving processes
closer to the memory that they're
accessing and also moving memory closer
to the processes the downside of this is
that it can actually slow down
performance of some applications
especially if they have a huge memory
footprint so if your memory footprint
overlaps two different Numa zones if
you're using a lot of memory for your
application it's going to be needlessly
moving memory around from one zone to
another even though your processes are
going to operate in both places and need
access to them so you can do a couple of
things to mitigate this on Linux the
first option is to set Numa equals off
in your grub boot parameter and what
this does is it actually disables all
Numa knowledge of that scheduler and of
the system itself so it sees one big new
Mazzone overlapping all of the sockets
on your system so it's not trying to
needlessly move memory around from one
zone to another the alternative is if
you have an application that you can
actually fit within a single Numa zone
you may want to use application like
Numa CTL when you launch whatever
workload you have to lock your process
into a single Numa zone so that it'll
only ever read and write memory that's
local to it and in those processes won't
be able to switch from one socket to
another another thing to keep in mind
when it comes to operating systems is
how important the version of your
operating system is I was working with a
customer not too long ago who was
migrating a custom in-house developed
application from on-premise to AWS and
they weren't seeing the performance they
were expecting two out of the system now
this was a pretty complex application
and testing it took a lot of work so
what we did is we found an analog a
performance testing analog tool online
called a busy which exhibited the same
exact behavior as they were seeing so
this is the first round of their tests
it was run on rel 6 and this is with a
busy and we also profiled it
perf which is another great tool to
understand what's going on at a system
level from your application and here you
can see the first time we ran it we got
about twelve thousand records per second
but we noticed there was a lot of time
being spent in system space in the
colonel instead of user space we also
looked at the page faults and saw that
there's about a million and a half page
faults just in this ten second run so
obviously something is wrong here's the
output of another tool that we used
called flame grass now if you haven't
used flame grass before I highly
recommend it because and these are this
is a tool it was created by Brendan Greg
who's given talks at reinvent before
it's a really great way of understanding
where the time is spent in your
application and the code paths that are
happening in there so here you can see a
busy is the bottom bar in this chart and
the bulk of that time is actually spent
in an M advised Paul which is a memory
management call and that memory
management call it's going through a lot
of different code but eventually it ends
up in a Zen hyper call which accounts
for all that system time that we're
using so we took this same exact code
and weary compiled it for rel seven and
ranted on the exact same type of
instance just by recompiling it and
moving it to the newest operating system
our performance went from 12,000 records
per second to four hundred twenty-five
thousand records per second and all that
time that was spent in system space
moved into user space where we'd expect
it to be we can also see that page
faults went down from around million and
a half to only 14,000 so what happened
what what's the cause of this again
flame graphs tell the story here this is
the exact same flame graph generated
from just a rel 7 system same exact code
same exact run type it turns out in rel
7g Lib C changed the way that some
memory calls happen so instead of that
long m advice call that ended up in that
Zen hyper call which aid all our CPU
time it's now doing a intel optimized
memory man
task so the moral of the story is that
when you're moving to AWS compile your
application or run your application on
the latest version of the operating
system that it's compatible with and if
you can recompile it because it can make
a huge difference this customer we even
tried bringing over the rail 6 binary to
rel 7 that was statically compiled and
we saw the same problems another subject
related to memory and this is going to
be my last one on memory is to disable
transparent huge pages now huge pages
they are it is a huge subject so I'm not
going to go into the depths of what huge
pages are how they work the link that
you see at the bottom of this slide
actually it's probably the best article
that i found that explains how they work
but transparent huge pages are enabled
by default on most litigating systems
disabling transparent huge pages and
instead going to an explicit huge page
model can significantly boost the
performance of any application that's of
most applications I should probably say
that are accessing a lot of memory so i
definitely recommend if you're a memory
intensive workload look at huge pages
and it's especially explicit next I want
to talk about I oh we have a few
different instance families that are
optimized for i/o usage we have the I to
instance which is an I ops based
instance it has a bunch of SSD drives
and then we have the d2 instance which
is dense storage and uses magnetic but
in order to get the best possible
performance out of these instances you
need to be running a modern linux kernel
and on a modern operating system and the
reason for this is because of the split
driver model that zen uses to
communicate so let's say you're an
application in the upper right that
needs to write to a storage device
inside of your application or inside of
your operating system that application
rights to a front-end driver that front
end driver then goes through the
hypervisor and talks to a back-end
driver that back-end driver then has to
write to the real
physical device driver before sending it
down to the storage device from their
data transfer happens through shared
pages that need to be granted that need
permissions to be granted and released
and this granting process has a lot of
overhead especially on early kernels
every time you need to talk to that disk
you need to talk to the VMM get
permission to write to the Vice fill a
buffer with the data you want to
transfer pass that data back to the
backend wait for it to be written and
then remove the grant this is a really
expensive operation that includes up
that involves a lot of buffer flushing
that only gets worse the more cpus that
you add to it so to solve this
persistent grants were created and with
persistent grants the permission to
write to that device is actually reused
for all the transactions between the
front-end and the backend driver so
grants no need to be unmapped anymore
and that translation buffer never needs
to be flushed because of this you'll get
significantly better performance for all
your i/o operations as long as you're
running a kernel that supports
persistent grants so to validate that
you are using persistent grants or that
they're enabled in your Linux kernel you
can simply just run the D message
command and grip for the block front
driver here you can see I'm running an
eye to aid x-large instance and as you
can see all of my all of my volumes have
persists and grants enabled so if I
haven't said it already using a modern
kernel is really important I have a lot
of customers that still use sent OS six
because it's what they've been running
their data centers for years but I've
seen as much as a sixty percent
performance improvement just by
switching your operating system from
something that's running a 28 kernel or
a 26 kernel to a 310 colonel the kernel
that was released with tooth with sent
os6 was released in 2009 and while it
may not always feel like it it was a
really long time ago in the cloud
computing world so please use a modern
operating system with a modern
now along the lines of the split driver
model around it was at the time the c3
launch that we introduced a new way to
talk to network devices and that's
enhanced networking now under the hood
enhanced networking uses a technology
called SR IOV or single route io
virtualization and what this does is it
allows the physical Network device to be
exposed directly to your operating
system so that your calls don't need to
go through that hypervisor now to use an
enhanced networking it does have a few
requirements you do need a special
driver to be installed in your operating
system and easy to needs to be told to
expose the network device in this
different way but as you can see the
network path is much much simpler
packets don't need to go through that
hypervisor anymore and because you're
talking to bare metal you're going to
get a higher rate of packets per second
and decrease jitter because the CPU is
not longer involved in that process it's
free enhanced networking is free on all
supported operating on all supported
instances and it's enabled by default
and most amies however if you're doing
an import of a virtual machine from
on-premise to ec2 you probably don't
have it enabled unless you've explicitly
done so i highly recommend it if you're
doing anything that touches the network
on an ec2 instance and when it comes to
network performance we're still not done
along with the x1 instance we release
the next generation of enhanced
networking which is called ena or the
elastic network adapter now na launched
with the x1 and it's beginning to roll
out on newer and newer instances as we
come about so it's on the m416 and the
p2 instance but what ena does is it now
offers you 20 gigabits of network
performance as compared to the 10 that
you just get with enhanced networking it
also has features like hardware
checksums and receive side steering give
you even more control of the packet
processing pipeline so that you can make
sure that you're getting the highest
rate of packets per second now when it
comes to network performance I want to
touch briefly on the subject and we have
a deep dive at reinvent that I highly
recommend that you go to on this but
when it comes to networking performance
that 20 gigabit and that 10 gigabit that
you see listed on those instances that
only applies to instance to instance
communication when those instances are
in a placement group but if you do use
placement groups you can actually get by
sectional bandwidth out of those
instances so that means you can get 20
gigabits out and 20 to give it's in at
the same time you'll also need to be
using multiple TCP streams to achieve
that for things like talking to s3 any
network traffic out of ec2 is going to
be capped at about five gigabits per
second but it's easy to forget that
networking throughput is also a function
of instant sizes I had a customer who is
doing some performance testing with s3
and they weren't getting the performance
they were hoping for out of it it turns
out their routing all of their internet
traffic through a t2 micronet instance
which is definitely going to be your
bottleneck so definitely keep in mind
the network performance of the instance
that you launch and if you care about
care about it use iperf to test the
throughput from one instance to another
in that placement group and just like
network performance EBS performance is
also a factor of instant sizes EBS
optimization is a great way to get great
EBS performance out of your ec2 instance
what it does is it creates a dedicated
path for EDS traffic that's separate
from your standard network traffic it's
actually enabled by default on a lot of
our newest instances so if you're doing
anything that's requires a lot of heavy
storage utilization make sure that
you're using EBS optimized now EBS
optimized we actually have the chart
that you see here is just an excerpt
from the EBS optimization pages and this
chart will show you that for every
instance that supports EBS optimization
how much throughput you can get to EBS
out of that instance you can see how
many I ups you can get out of that
so it should definitely be your
reference when you're using a workload
that uses a heavy that uses EBS heavily
so in conclusion there are a lot of
things that you can do to get great ec2
performance at the bare minimum use a
modern operating system make sure you're
using an h vm based on me so that you're
talking to hardware as much as possible
used enhance networking it's free and
it's going to significantly increase
your packet performance and always
profile your application on your
instances and test them to see how
they'll perform and when it comes to
virtualization i want to talk i want to
mention that our goal is to make
virtualization as transparent as
possible argo and eliminate any
efficiencies that it can cause our goal
is to give you bare metal like
performance out of your ec2 instance and
in a lot of ways we're already there so
if you have any questions we actually
have a couple of microphones set up if
you want to go up and ask otherwise
visit the ec2 documentation page and
start testing your app thanks